# GIT Basic Commands
1. git init
Initializes an empty Git repository in the current directory.

2. git config --global --list
Lists your global Git configuration, including the username and email address used for commits.

3. git config --global user.name "username"
Adds your Git commit username globally.

4. git config --global user.email "youremail@example.com"
Adds your Git commit email globally.

5. git clone <remote URL>
Downloads a remote repository from GitHub (or another Git host) to your local machine.

6. Fork
A fork is a copy of a repository. When you fork a repository, it will not impact the original (upstream) repository. If changes are made to the original repository, you will need to manually sync your fork to get those updates.

7. SSH Connection to GitHub
To connect to GitHub using SSH (instead of HTTPS), use this command:

bash
Copy
ssh -T git@github.com
8. git remote add origin <URL>
Connects your local repository to a remote GitHub repository by adding the remote URL.

9. git remote set-url origin <new URL>
Updates the remote URL if you want to change the remote repository’s URL.

10. git pull
Pulls the latest changes from the remote repository (GitHub) to your local repository.

11. git push
Pushes your local changes to the remote repository on GitHub.

12. git status
Displays the status of your local files (which files are staged, unstaged, or untracked).

13. git add <file name> / git add .
Adds files to the staging area in preparation for committing. Use git add . to add all modified files.

14. git commit -m "commit message"
Commits the staged changes to your local repository with a descriptive commit message.

15. git log
Displays the commit history in your current branch.

16. git log --oneline
Displays a condensed, one-line version of the commit history.

17. git diff
Shows the differences between the working directory and the index (staging area) or between commits.

18. git reset --hard <commit-id>
Resets your repository to a specific commit. This will discard all changes after the given commit and reset the HEAD pointer to that commit.

19. git branch
Lists all available branches in the repository.

20. git checkout -b <branch name>
Creates a new branch and switches to it.

21. git checkout <branch name>
Switches to the specified branch.

22. Merging Branches
To merge a branch into master (or the main branch), follow these steps:

Ensure you're on the master branch.

Run git pull origin master to ensure your local master is up to date.

Merge the feature branch into master:

bash
Copy
git merge <feature-branch>
23. Cherry-pick a Commit
When you want to apply a specific commit from one branch to another (usually from feature-branch to master), use git cherry-pick <commit-id>. This applies the changes from the given commit ID to your current branch.

Example:

bash
Copy
git cherry-pick <commit-id>
Notes:
Merge vs Cherry-pick: When merging, you merge a whole branch into another, while git cherry-pick allows you to select a single commit from any branch and apply it to the current branch.
