A Pull Request (PR) in GitHub is a way to propose changes from one branch to another (typically from a feature branch to the main or master branch). Here's a step-by-step guide on how to create a pull request using GitHub.

## Example Scenario:
You have a repository on GitHub called my-repo.

You created a new branch called feature-branch where you made some changes.

You now want to create a pull request to merge feature-branch into the main branch.

1. Create a New Branch (Locally)
First, make sure you're on the correct branch (the one you want to base your changes on). For example, the main branch.


git checkout main
git pull origin main  # Ensure you have the latest changes
Now, create a new branch for your feature.


git checkout -b feature-branch
2. Make Your Changes
Make the changes to your files in the feature-branch. You can add new features, bug fixes, or changes as needed.

For example, let's edit README.md:


echo "Added a new feature" >> README.md
3. Commit Your Changes
Once you've made your changes, add and commit them to your branch.


git add README.md  # Add the file to staging
git commit -m "Add new feature to README"  # Commit your changes
4. Push Your Branch to GitHub
Push your changes to the remote repository on GitHub.


git push origin feature-branch
5. Create a Pull Request (PR) on GitHub
Now that your changes are pushed to the feature-branch, you can create a pull request on GitHub.

Go to GitHub: Open your browser and go to your GitHub repository (e.g., https://github.com/your-username/my-repo).

Create the Pull Request:

You'll see a banner at the top of the repository page that suggests creating a pull request for the branch you've just pushed. Click the "Compare & pull request" button.

If you don’t see the banner, click on the "Pull requests" tab at the top, and then click the "New pull request" button.

Select feature-branch as the source branch (the branch you want to merge), and main as the target branch (the branch you want to merge into).

Add a Title and Description:

Add a title for your pull request (e.g., "Add new feature to README").

In the description section, explain what changes you’ve made, why you made them, and any other relevant information.

Example description:

css
Copy
This PR adds a new feature to the README, providing a better understanding of how to use the project.
Create the Pull Request: After reviewing the changes, click the "Create pull request" button.

6. Review and Merge the Pull Request
Once the pull request is created, the repository owners or collaborators will review your changes. They may comment, request changes, or approve it.

Reviewers can comment on specific lines in the code by clicking the "Files changed" tab and leaving comments.

Address feedback: If changes are requested, you can make the changes locally and push them to the same branch. The pull request will automatically update.

Once the pull request is approved, the reviewer (or you) can merge it.

To merge:

Go to the pull request on GitHub.

Click "Merge pull request".

Confirm the merge.

7. Delete the Feature Branch (Optional)
After the pull request is merged, you can safely delete your feature-branch:

Locally:


git branch -d feature-branch  # Delete the local branch
On GitHub: GitHub will offer a button to delete the branch after the PR is merged. You can also delete it manually from the repository's branches tab.

Summary of the Process:
Create a new branch from main (or your base branch).

Make changes and commit them to the new branch.

Push the branch to GitHub.

Open a pull request on GitHub to merge your changes.

Review and discuss the pull request.

Merge the pull request into the base branch.

Optionally, delete the feature branch.
